>> Speaker 1: You talk a little bit
about when the componentDidUpdate
lifecycle methods?
>> Brian Holt: Sure, let's get rid
of all the error stuff really quick.
So here,
>> Brian Holt: Inside of
componentDidUpdate, so componentDidUpdate
is gonna get called when
props change a state change,
that's about it, right?
So it's very much similar to useEffect,
right?
So useEffect gets running
whatever its dependencies update.
componentDidUpdate is gonna get run
every single time that a proper or
state changes, right?
So that's why I say,
if this state.hasError,
right, then set this to be something else.
Now, I could have just said this,
because this only has one piece of state.
But what happens later
if this has more state,
you wanna be specific,
like this reacts to this, right?
So in this particular case,
this is reacting to componentDidCatch
gets called, right?
Or no, sorry, getDerivedStateFromError,
this gets called, this updates
the hasError to be true, which is then
going to call componentDidUpdate here.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 1: Yes, thank you.
>> Brian Holt: Of course, good question.
>> Speaker 3: Could you actually talk
about the getDerivedStateFromError?
How does that get called?
How does React know to run that function?
>> Brian Holt: Sorry, this gets called
whenever there's an error inside of it,
right?
And so because it's a static method,
it can call it on the class and not on
the instance, not that that's really a
thing that you really care too much about.
But what it'll do is
it'll call this method,
it'll pass in,
>> Speaker 3: Is that
because of the naming convention
that it knows to call it?
>> Brian Holt: Yes, I guess, I don't-
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
it has to be called this.
This is a lifecycle method in that sense,
right?
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Just like we had,
what was the-
>> Speaker 3: On carousel?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, on the carousel
one as well, getDerivedStateFromProps.
>> Brian Holt: So yeah,
it'll pass in the error here.
For us, we just know there's an error now,
so we're gonna update that state and
then it's going to re-render
with that new state.
Does that make sense?
Cool.
>> Speaker 4: If there's an error
in production that's not handled,
what does React do?
>> Brian Holt: It unmounts.
>> Speaker 4: Right.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
it just takes the entire
thing out of the DOM.
So a lot of companies will just have
one top level error handler, and
that'll handle the entire app.
But you can also have multiple levels of
maybe your footer has a lot of errors.
Maybe you shouldn't have that footer.
But maybe it does, right,
but then you could have one
specifically for your footer, right.
Yeah, Mark?
>> Mark: Can error boundaries
be used with functional hooks?
>> Brian Holt: No,
because getDerivedStatesFromErrors,
there is end component to catch for
that matter.
There is no equivalent for
these with hooks.
So this one you actually
have to use class component.
>> Mark: Currently?
>> Brian Holt: Currently,
there's no plans to fix that, but
that isn't to say that,
there won't be plans.
But yeah, currently there's
no way to do it with hooks.
>> Mark: So could you use it to wrap
a component that's using hooks?
>> Brian Holt: Right, yeah, because
this.props.children can be anything,
right?
It has no opinion on whatever
its children are gonna be doing.